Contact Information: Bashundhara, Dhaka-1229, Bangladesh
 +880-2-55668200   |    Fax: +880-2-55668202
 registrar@northsouth.edu


Minimum qualifications for admission Test
Academic Qualifications:
Combined GPA of 8.0 in both SSC and HSC with a minimum GPA of 3.5 in each
OR
GCE O-Levels and A-Levels: O-Levels in five subjects with a minimum Average Grade Point of 2.5 and A-Levels in two subjects with a minimum Average Grade Point of 2.0. Only one ‘E’ Grade is acceptable in combined O & A-Levels. (Scale A=5, B=4, C=3, D=2 & E=1)
OR
IB Diploma Program (IB-DP) in 6 subjects with a minimum average grade point of 4.0 out of 7.0 (total points of 24)
US High School Diploma with a minimum of 60% marks
An equivalence certificate from the Education Board is required for individuals whose educational background differ from those specified above.
Foundation and/or GED programs are not eligible for undergraduate admission.
Students with academic qualifications other than the above need to contact Admissions Office to check their eligibility.
International Applicants:
must have 12th schooling years with minimum average marks of 60%
i. medium of instruction in English or
ii. required minimum scores of:
1. SAT 1100 (1600 scale) or
2. IELTS 6.0 or
3. TOEFL (PBT 514 or CBT 180 or IBT 72)
for non-English speaking countries.
All academic papers will be verified by the Education Ministry/Concerned Embassy


Specific programs requirements
For all Engineering programs (BS in CSE, EEE, and CEE) of the School of Engineering & Physical Sciences, candidates must have -
Math and Physics with a minimum B grade in HSC OR
Math & Physics with a minimum C & E grade respectively in A-Levels OR
Math and Physics with a minimum C grade in O-Levels AND must have Math or Physics with a minimum C grade in A-Levels to be eligible to apply.
For B.Arch. (Bachelor of Architecture) program, candidates must have Math or Physics with a minimum 'B' grade in HSC or a 'C' grade in A-Levels to be eligible to apply.
For Biochemistry and Microbiology, candidates must have Biology and Chemistry in SSC/HSC or O/A Levels to be eligible to apply.
For BPharm, applicants must have
Chemistry, and Biology with a minimum grade of ‘A-’ (GPA 3.5 out of 5.0) and Physics, and Math with a minimum grade of 'B' (GPA 3.0 out of 5.0) in SSC/Equivalent and HSC/Equivalent separately to be eligible to apply.
Chemistry, and Biology with a minimum grade of ‘B’ (GPA 4.0 out of 5.0) and Physics, and Math with a minimum grade of 'C' (GPA 3.0 out of 5.0) in A-Levels to be eligible to apply.
It is mandatory for students to complete an additional 3 (three) credits in basic mathematics courses if they have not studied mathematics in their HSC or A-Levels.
Note: Candidate must pass HSC/A-Levels within three (3) years of result published to be eligible for the BPharm Program.

Please read carefully:
Please check the eligibility criteria before applying. Applicants who do not meet the eligibility criteria may be refused admission, and payments made for the same will not be refunded.
Candidates need to select BPharm or LLB as their first choice if they want to be admitted to those programs.
BPharm & LLB programs are only offered in the Spring & Summer semester.


Online Admission Process:
Undergraduate Admission Process:

Step-1: Complete your registration
Read carefully your eligibility from the tab Minimum Requirement.
Complete your registration with a valid email and phone number.
Verify your email and then log in again.
Step-2: Complete your application form
After registration, you will get an Application form.
Complete your application form with valid information.
You may check your application form carefully before the final Submission
Once it is submitted you are not able to edit your application form.
Step-3: Payment options for application Fee
Payment with Bkash: 1523/-
Payment with Bank: 1500/-
For details go to the Payment Process tab
Step-4: Print your admit card
Print your admit card to sit for the exam.

Finally, bring your printed Admit Card with you on Admission Exam Day.


Admission Test Procedure

Admission Test
A two-and-a-half-hour Admission Test consists of English grammar & vocabulary, Quantitative Aptitude (General Math), Reading comprehension, and Composition (Essay).In addition, there will be a 30-minute drawing test for the Bachelor of Architecture candidates.

For admission test sample question paper, please visit the NSU website.
Test date Instruction:
1. All candidates must bring admit card & one original photo ID (Passport or NID or HSC Registration Card).
2. All candidates must report at least 30 min before the admission test.
3. Cell phones, digital watches, calculators, tabs, cameras, and handbags will not be allowed in the examination hall.
4. All candidates should bring pens, pencils, sharpeners, erasers, etc.

The Following documents of the successful candidates will be needed at the time of Admission:
(a) SSC/O-levels mark sheet and certificate
(b) HSC/A-levels mark sheet and certificate
(c) Two recent passport-size photographs of the candidate and parents
(d) Candidate's and parent's NID/Passport

Financial Aid Eligibility
Who are eligible for Financial aid at North South University?

North South University awards financial aid in the form of full/partial tuition waiver only to the deserving students who achieve and maintain outstanding academic track records as mentioned below:
Undergraduate applicants securing top 10 position in the NSU admission test get full tuition waiver (100%).
GPA 5.00 (excluding 4th Subject) in either SSC or HSC and at least GPA 4.80 in the other (excluding 4th Subject) with satisfactory NSU Admission Test Performance.
Candidates who earn 7 'A's in O-level exams and 3 'A's in A-level having satisfactory NSU Admission Test Score.
Applicants of all graduate programs with the three highest scores on the admission test would receive scholarships in the form of one 50% and  two 25% tuition waivers upon admission.
NSU graduates, with CGPA 3.80 at undergraduate level would be entitled to 50% tuition waiver upon his/her admission in any graduate level students at NSU.
General students of NSU seeking financial aid must fulfill the minimum criteria i.e. the undergraduate students must complete minimum 9 credits and maintain a minimum CGPA of 2.75 and graduate students 3.25 with 6 Credits.
Aid for Siblings: Financial assistance is also available for siblings i.e. if two brothers or two sisters or one brother and one sister, whatever may be the case, have been studying at NSU, they would be entitled to 25% tuition waiver each subject to eligibility and they must apply formally during usual aid process.
Freedom Fighter Quota: Students availing freedom fighter quota must apply formally enclosing with the following documents/details as per requirement of the Ministry of Liberation War Affairs:
(a) Copy of Offer Letter (Applicable for Newly Admitted Students only).
(b) Attested copy of Provisional Certificate ‘Shamoik Shonod’ or ‘BAMUSH Shonod’ of the freedom fighter.
(c) Attested copy of Bangladesh Govt. Gazette of the freedom fighter.
(d) Attested copy of ‘Lal Muktibarta’ of the freedom fighter.
(e) Attested copy of the National ID Card (NID) of the freedom fighter.
(f) Attested copy of the Birth certificate or SSC certificate of the freedom fighter.
(g) Attested copy of the Birth certificate of the student.
(h) Attested copy of the SSC/HSC certificate/Passport/NID Card of the student.
(i) Financial Aid Application Form (Available at Prime Bank Ltd., Bashundhara Branch, Dhaka Only).
Entitlement of freedom fighter quota is subject to verification from the concerned Ministry. FAO deals with the cases on first come first served basis. However, priority may be given to the children of freedom fighter who are Orphan, children of deceased/wounded freedom fighter or whose parents are critically ill. Continuation of freedom fighter facility is subject to satisfactory academic performance at NSU. Graduate students must maintain a minimum CGPA of 3.00 and Undergraduate students 2.75 at all time for the wards of freedom fighter.

Applicants of freedom fighter quota can apply in all semesters during admission.

However, students in all the above cases must apply for financial aid formally. The authority may review and change the above conditions from time to time. Continuation of getting such tuition waiver is subject to his/her academic performance and other financial aid policy of NSU as applicable.


Financial Aid Category
Types of Financial aid/ Scholarship available at North South University
Financial aid reflects the University's commitment to a student community that is broadly diverse in terms of race, geography, gender, special skills and talent. NSU offers Financial aid/ Scholarship to students under the provision of Private University Act 2010, where students of NSU can apply in the following categories:

Financial Aid for the wards of freedom fighters (WoFF) of liberation war
(Quota based waiver).
Financial Aid based on previous academic attainment and admission test result
(Merit based tuition waiver/ scholarship).
Financial Aid based on high academic achievement at NSU (Merit based tuition waiver/ scholarship). 
Financial Aid based on financial NEED of a student (based on
humanitarian ground).
Financial Aid based on Need and Merit of a student (Merit-Need based waiver/ scholarship).
Financial Aid based on siblings study together at NSU.
Financial Aid in the form of student employment at NSU (Work-Study
based).


Undergraduate Programs Details:
School of Engineering & Physical Sciences:
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
Bachelor of Architecture	170	10
BS in Computer Science & Engineering (CSE)	130	42
BS in Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE)	130	43
BS in Civil & Environmental Engineering (CEE)	149	25

School of Business & Economics:
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA)	120	30
BS in Economics	120	20

School of Health and Life Sciences
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
BPharm Professional	199	49
BS in Biochemistry and Biotechnology	120	47
BS in Microbiology	120	48
BS in Environmental Science and Environmental Management	130	27
BS in Environmental Science	130	26
Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) 130	18

School of Humanities & Social Sciences:
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
BA in English	123	15
Bachelor of Laws (LLB Hons)	130	11
BSS in Media, Communication, and Journalism (BSS MCJ)	129	12

School of Business & Economics:
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
Non Degree	0	00


Graduate Programs Details:
School of Business & Economics:
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
Master in Development Studies (MDS)	39	51
Master of Business Administration (MBA)	60	60
Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA)	50	90
MS in Economics	39	53

School of Engineering & Physical Sciences:
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
Master of Science in Applied Mathematics and Computational Sciences (AMCS)	40	58
Master of Science in Civil Engineering (M.S. in CE)	36	65
MS in Electrical and Electronic Engineering	33	52
MS in Electronic and Telecommunication Engineering	33	56
MS in Computer Science and Engineering	33	50

School of Health and Life Sciences:
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
MS in Environmental Science and Management	36	76
Executive Master of Public Health (EMPH)	51	81
Master of Public Health (MPH)	51	80
MPharm in Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacy	36	72
MPharm in Pharmaceutical Technology and Biopharmaceutics	36	73
MS in Biotechnology	36	70

School of Humanities & Social Sciences:
Program Name |	Credits	|Code
MA in English	36	55
Master in Public Policy and Governance (MPPG)	36	85
Master of Laws (LL.M)	36	54
MA in History and Asian Studies	36	57
Executive Masters in Policy and Governance (EMPG)	36	86

Request for Alumni Information:
Alumni can request the Alumni Affairs Officer to provide information on other alumni. However, the users of alumni data are required to meet the following conditions.

Alumni Card obtaining Procedure:
All users must submit a memo for alumni information that is signed by a department chair or a school dean.
The request must include the ID number(s) of the alumni for each project or event.
The intended use of the requested information needs to be mentioned in the request.
The request has to be submitted at least two weeks before it is needed.
Users are not allowed to use information for private, political or personal reasons, but only for NSU-related business.
After all these conditions are met, the Alumni Affairs Officer forwards this request to the alumnus/alumna whose information was requested. If the alumnus or alumna approves to share his/her contact information, only then the Alumni Affairs Officer will give the requester the needed contact information. NSU respects all alumni’s privacy and under no circumstances will it authorize access to anyone’s personal information without his/her consent.



Recommendation Letters & Certificates For International Students:
The International Affairs Officer provides several recommendation letters and certificates to the international students for their studentship verification. These documents are integral as they help the Special Branch Police (SBP) Office to issue their security clearances and extended visas. In the following, the documents provided by the OEA are listed.

‘To Whom It May Concern’
Visa Extension recommendation letter
NSU Registration Certificate’
International student list
To receive these documents, contact the International Affairs Officer during student hours or by a separate appointment.



Communicating with SB Police for International Students:
The Office of International Affairs(OIA) always cooperates with the Special Branch Police (SBP) regarding international students. Any information required by the SBP is submitted instantaneously so that the international students can reside in this country legally. Each semester, the SBP requires the following information which the International Affairs Officer provides:

Name of the new international student
Nationality
Date of entry into Bangladesh
Present addresses of the international student
Passport number
Passport validity
Visa type and validity
Purpose of stay
Name of the institution’
Remarks
The requirements of the SBP Office are subject to change. Therefore, the International Affairs Officer aids the SBP Office to smoothen the verification process. Due to the language barrier, the International Affairs Officer also acts as an interpreter to bridge the communication gap between international students and the SBP in various situations.


List of Clubs in NSU:
Art & Photography Club, Athletics Club , Cine and Drama Club, Communications Club, Computer & Engineer Club, Debate Club, Earth Club, Ethics & Diversity Club, Finance Club, Human Resources Club, Law and Mooting Society, Marketing & International Business Club, MBA Club, Model UN Club, Pharmaceutical Club, Public Health and Sciences Club, Sangskritik Sangathan, Social Services Club, Young Economists Forum, Young Entrepreneur Society

Vice-Chancellor:
      Prof. Abdul Hannan Chowdhury
      Chairman, Grameen Bank
      Post-Doc., University of Calgary, Canada
      Ph.D., Northeastern University, USA
      Email: vicechancellor@northsouth.edu

Treasurer & Pro-Vice Chancellor (IC):
      Prof. Abdur Rob Khan
      Ph.D., University of Kent at Canterbury (UKC), UK
      Email: treasurer@northsouth.edu


Registrar:
      Dr. Ahmed Tazmeen
      Ph.D., University of Manitoba, Canada
      M.S., Illinois State University, USA
      Email: registrar@northsouth.edu


Proctor
      Dr. Abdul Khaleque
      Ph.D., Kumamoto University Medical School, Japan
      Email: proctor@northsouth.edu


Controller of Examinations
      Prof. Dr. K. M. A. Salam
      Ph.D., Muroran Institute of Tech., Japan
      Email: controller@northsouth.edu


Dean, School of Health & Life Sciences:
      Prof. Dr. Dipak Kumar Mitra
      Ph.D., Johns Hopkins University, USA
      MPH, Harvard University, USA
      Email: dipak.mitra@northsouth.edu

Dean, School of Business & Economics:
      Prof. Dr. AKM Waresul Karim
      Ph.D., University of Leeds, UK
      Email: waresul.karim@northsouth.edu

Dean, School of Engineering & Physical Sciences
Prof. Dr. Shazzad Hosain
Ph.D., Wayne State University, USA
Email: shazzad.hosain@northsouth.edu

Dean, School of Humanities & Social Sciences
Prof. Dr. Md. Rizwanul Islam
Ph.D., Macquarie University, Australia
LL.M. (IP & IT Law), National University of Singapore, SG
Email: rizwanul.islam@northsouth.edu


Chair, Department of Accounting & Finance
Asst. Prof. Dr. FJ Mohaimen
Ph. D., Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand
MS., Baruch College-Zicklin School of Business, USA
Email: fj.mohaimen@northsouth.edu

Chair, Department of Management
Assoc. Prof. Dr. Ziaul Haq Adnan
Ph.D., The University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
M.S., The University of Southern Mississippi, USA
Email: ziaul.adnan@northsouth.edu

Chair, Department of Economics
Assoc. Prof. Dr. Syed Mortuza Asif Ehsan
Ph.D., Virginia Tech., USA
MA, Virginia Tech., USA
Email: syed.ehsan@northsouth.edu


Chair, Dept. of Marketing & Int. Business
Assist. Prof. Dr. Khandker Md Nahin Mamun
Ph. D., University of Strathclyde, UK
Email: khandker.mamun@northsouth.edu


Chair, Dept. of Electrical & Computer Engineering
Prof. Dr. Mohammad Abdul Matin
Ph.D., Newcastle University, UK
M.Sc., Loughborough University, UK
Email: mohammad.matin@northsouth.edu


Chair, Department of Mathematics & Physics
Prof. Dr. Md. Mamun Molla
Ph.D., University of Glasgow, UK
Email: mamun.molla@northsouth.edu

Chair, Department of Architecture
Asst. Prof. Ar. Shahriar Iqbal Raj
M.Sc., Newcastle University, UK
Email: shahriar.raj@northsouth.edu

Chair, Dept. of Civil & Env. Engineering
Assoc. Prof. Dr. S M Ashfaqul Hoq
Ph.D., The University of Wyoming, USA
MS., The University of Texas at Arlington (UTA), USA
Email: ashfaqul.hoq@northsouth.edu

Chair, Department of Law
Prof. Dr. Ishtiaque Ahmed
J.S.D., University of Maine School of Law, USA
LL.M., University of London in Association with Queen Mary & UCL, UK
Email: ishtiaque.ahmed@northsouth.edu


Chair, Department of History & Philosophy
Prof. Dr. Mahbubur Rahman
Ph.D., Clark Atlanta University, USA
Email: mahbubur.rahman@northsouth.edu


Chair, Dept. of Political Science & Sociology
Assoc. Prof. Dr. Rizwan Khair
Ph.D., The University of New England, Australia
Email: rizwan.khair@northsouth.edu

Chair, Dept. of English & Modern Languages
Asst. Prof. Dr. Nazia Manzoor
Ph.D., University at Albany, State University of New York, USA
M.A., University at Albany, State University of New York, USA
Email: nazia.manzoor@northsouth.edu


Chair, Dept. of Biochemistry and Microbiology
Assoc. Prof. Dr. Md. Mainul Hossain
Ph.D., University of Montana, USA
Email: mainul.hossain01@northsouth.edu

Director, Graduate Studies
Prof. Dr. MN Islam
Ph.D., University of Tokushima, Japan
Email: mn.islam@northsouth.edu

Director, Office of Research-NSU
Dr. Norman Kenneth Swazo
Ph.D., The University of Georgia, USA
Graduate Certificate in Global Policy Studies, The University of Georgia, USA
M.H.S.A, The University of Michigan, USA
Email: norman.swazo@northsouth.edu

Director, MBA & EMBA Programs
Prof. Dr. Nazlee Siddiqui
Ph. D., Western Sydney University, Australia
Email: nazlee.siddiqui@northsouth.edu

Director, BBA Program
Assoc. Prof. Dr. Muhammad Faisol Chowdhury
Ph. D., University of Glasgow, UK
Email: faisol.chowdhury@northsouth.edu
